=============
Version 0.7.0
=============

Version 0.7.0 depends on Hops 2.8.2.6. This Hops version requires a change of the type of the Inode ID. This requires modifications to the cluster definition and some manual intervention. 

Changes to the cluster definition
---------------------------------

1. In the global `attrs` section add the current version attribute. The attribute should be set to your current installed version. Example: 

.. code-block:: yaml

    attrs:                                                                                                         
        install:                                                                                                     
            current_version: "0.6.1"

2. The upgrade requires rebuilding the Elasticsearch index for projects and datasets. Force the rebuilding by adding the following attribute to the cluster definition: 

.. code-block:: yaml

    elastic:
        projects:
            reindex: "true"

3. If your installation includes Hive, and you are installing it using the `hive2::default` or `hive2` entries in your  recipes list, you should replace it with: 

.. code-block:: yaml

    recipes:
        - hive2::db                                                                                              
        - hive2::tez                                                                                             
        - hive2::server2                                                                                         
        - hive2::metastore       


Manual actions required
-----------------------

The Inode ID type change requires serveral modifications of the database schema. Before starting the upgrade, make sure you have a backup of your database. 
Before starting the upgrade you should disable the foreign key checks in MySQL. 

.. code-block:: sql 
 
    set global FOREIGN_KEY_CHECKS=0;

Once the `hive2::db` recipe has run successfully you can procede to re-enable the foreign key checks.

.. code-block:: sql 
 
    set global FOREIGN_KEY_CHECKS=1;

As heads up, the setting is restored to 1 if you restart your MySQL server.