=============
Version 1.0.0
=============

Version 1.0.0 requires some changes to the cluster definition. 

Changes to the cluster definition
---------------------------------

1. In the global `attrs` section add the current version attribute. The attribute should be set to your current installed version. Example: 

.. code-block:: yaml

    attrs:                                                                                                         
        install:                                                                                                     
            current_version: "0.10.0"

2. Hopsworks 1.0.0 improves monitoring capabilities of the platform using Prometheus. You should add the following recipes to the cluster definition:

   - `hopsmonitor::prometheus` and `hopsmonitor::alertmanager` should be added to a single node.
   - `hopsmonitor::node_exporter` should be added to all the nodes of the cluster
   - `hopsmonitor::purge_telegraf` should be added to all the nodes of the cluster to remove previously installed versions of telegraf.

Moreover, if you add the `hopsmonitor::alertmanager` recipe, you should also add the attributes to instruct the alertmanager where to send the alerts. The recipes currently support email and/or slack configuration:

.. code-block:: yaml

    attrs:                                                                                                         
        alertmanager:    
            email:    
                to: sre@logicalclocks.com    
                from: hopsworks@logicalclocks.com    
                smtp_host: mail.hello.com    

.. code-block:: yaml

    attrs:                                                                                                         
        alertmanager:    
            slack:    
                api_url: <api_url> 
                channel: hopsworks 
                username: alertmanager  


3. Hopsworks 1.0.0 supports Flink and Beam. During the upgrade you should add the `flink::yarn` and `hopslog::_filebeat-beam` recipes on all the nodes where there is a node manager (`hops::nm`) and on the Hopsworks node. `flink::historyserver` should also be added to the Hopsworks node

4. In Hopsworks 1.0.0, to speed up Spark applications startup, we cache more artifacts on the node managers. You should add `livy::install` and `hadoop_spark::certs` on all the nodes where there is a node manager (`hops::nm`). `hadoop_spark::certs` should also be added to node where Hopsworks is located.

5. From Hopsworks 1.0.0 the attribute `kagent/network/interface` is dropped. 